# pandas-challenge

The Academy of Py

This analysis provides insights into district-wide standardized test results in both math and reading across all fifteen highschools making up the district. Results are given for all grade levels, ninth through twelve. The district has results for 39,170 total students with a total budget of $24,649,428.The district has seven "District" schools and eight "Charter" schools. The district average reading score was 81.9% and the math average was 78.9%, with 70% being the passing threshold for both tests. This then correlated to 74.9% of students passing math and 85.8% passing reading.

As we further anaylze the test results across individual schools, some conclusions from the data can be drawn. The top five performing school results all came from Charter schools. The Charter schools in this top group range in size from 962 students to 2283 students. This gives us an average Charter school size of 1641 students for this group. Their test results were remarkably similar with both average math and reading scores around 84%. Which resulted in 94% passing math and 97% passing reading. The average spend per student is $606 for this group.

On the other hand, the bottom five performing schools all came from District schools. The schools in this group range in size from 2739 to 4761 students. This gives an average school size of 3473 students.
Again, their average math scores were very similar across all five schools at around 77% and reading at 81%. This results in 66% passing math and 81% passing reading. The per student budget average for this group is $645.

A major disparity between these groups is the results in math. The top performing Charter schools have 94% of their students passing math, while the bottom schools have only 66% of their students passing the math test. That is close to a 30% difference in pass rate. For the reading results, the Charter schools have 97% passing and the District schools are at 81% students passing. While a gulf remains, it represents only a 16% difference. 

With the Charter school budget of $606 per student for this group and the District budget of $645, the disparity isn't from more money being spent. However, the school size difference is quite evident. The Charter schools in the top group have an average school size of 1641 students while the District schools in the bottom group have a school size average of 3473 students.

Based on the results and analyzing the data available you could easily draw conclusions that Charter schools are better than Disticts schools as pertaining to the standardized test results. Particularly in the math testing results. Their results were formidable. They also spend less per student in order to do so. However, they enjoy much smaller schools, while the District schools have over double the amount of students. While the Charter schools have demonstrated more "success" regarding the testing results, we  don't have a clear picture of class sizes for either of them. Typically schools with large student bodies also correlates with large class sizes. It has been widely accepted that large class sizes at the K though 12 level can be detrimental to a students learning. Also, larger schools tend to have a wider student body that offers learning opportunites to all student types. No matter their need level, District schools are structured to provide that. However, Charter schools are typically not structured to provide instuction across such a broad student body. As such, the per student spend might not actually represent what is "spent in the classroom". Students attending Charter schools are generally supported by motivated parents who have the time and money to support their children and have sought this alternative out. This may skew the population being tested, and not truly representative of the Charter school itself, but the socio-economic metrics of the students attending. This then raises the question of those motivated parents, no longer having students attending larger District schools. Does this then allow for even more stratification for District schools, not having those students and their parents being part of the school population? Or do Charter schools simply excel no matter the student population. Based on the data given, we can't be sure. 

While generally cost prohibitive for most districts, testing at the beginning of a school year and at the end of the school year provides a better metric for school performance. Thus, teacher performance as well. While the data doesn't provide all the answers, Charter schools and smaller schools definitely enjoy an academic advantage based on these standardize test results. Especially regarding their math results. With the importance of math and stem fields to our economic growth and prosperity, the Charter school's methods for their math instruction/curriculum needs to be examined and implemented if possible to the Distict schools.

